Md Muzammil Shaikh 
Shaikhmuza99@gmail.com | +917709359139 | Ulhasnagar, Maharashtra.  
 linkedin.com/md-muzammil-shaikh/   
 
 
Skills 
  
Languages: Python, JavaScript, SQL   
Web Frameworks: Django, Flask 
Technologies & Tools: RASA, Redis, JWT, PostgreSQL, MySQL MongoDB, PgBouncer, CI/CD, Docker, NGINX, Celery, REST 
Architecture, Microservices, Distributed Systems, AWS, EC2, ECS, S3, RDS, ElastiCache 
Certification: Full stack with Python (Fynd Academy) 
 
Work Experience 
  
Route Mobile Ltd, Mumbai   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
         
        
Jul 2023 - Present Software Developer  
• Spearheaded the development of an application for a no-code Chatbot Creation platform on AWS ECS, resulting in a 50% 
reduction in development time for AI-based Chatbots.  
• Created NLP and AI-based chatbots using Amazon Lex and Rasa, which contributed to a 30% improvement in customer 
interaction and satisfaction rates.  
• Introduced an asynchronous workflow into the existing architecture, resulting in a substantial 60% increase in throughput 
using Celery, directly impacting operational efficiency and scalability.  
• Led team efforts on various projects, ensuring timely delivery of features and achieving a 10% improvement in overall project 
completion rates. 
• Optimized application performance by implementing caching solutions, DB connection pooling, reducing server response time 
by 40%. 
• Utilized expertise in a wide range of technologies, including AWS services (EC2, S3, ECS), Python, Django, Flask, Redis, 
JWT, Celery, PostgreSQL, Docker, NGINX, and Rasa, to drive innovation and efficiency.  
Infosys, Mumbai    
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
       
Nov 2021 - Jul 2023 Senior System Associate   
• Authored automation scripts for the team, slashing operation time by 70% and driving a remarkable 98% increase in team 
productivity.  
• Implemented Python scripting, resulting in a 50% reduction in process time, directly contributing to a 30% increase in overall 
operational efficiency.  
• Developed and Integrated APIs into existing web applications, improving functionality and increasing user engagement by 
20%. 
• Collaborated with cross-functional teams on design, coding, and debugging, reducing development cycles by 15% through 
efficient teamwork and communication.
• Developed and Integrated APIs into existing web applications, improving functionality and increasing user engagement by 
20%. 
• Collaborated with cross-functional teams on design, coding, and debugging, reducing development cycles by 15% through 
efficient teamwork and communication. 
• Resolved over 95% of reported bugs from internal and external customers within SLA timelines, enhancing system reliability 
and user satisfaction. 
 
Education  
  
B.Sc. in Information Technology 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
Jun 2018 - May 2021   
University of Mumbai, CGPA: 8.6/10  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
Project Work  
  
• Roubot-2023: Created a AI based chatbot creation platform using Django, AWS Fargate, S3, Celery, Docker, DocumentDB, 
Elasticache and Flutter. Introduced an asynchronous workflow for creating high throughput. Leveraged the use of AWS 
Fargate and ECS for ensuring high availability of the application. Used AWS RDS for storing structured data.  
• Bill Sending application: Developed a Flask application that retrieves data from an MSSQL database and generates bills 
by mapping values to an HTML template using Jinja2. The generated HTML binary files are converted to PDFs and sent to 
respective WhatsApp numbers. Utilized Meta APIs and multithreading to generate hundreds of bills per minute. Implemented 
a cron job to automate the process, ensuring the application runs every minute as a SaaS solution. 

